> Then the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of one
> was Shiphrah and the name of the other Puah;
>
> and he said, "When you do the duties of a midwife for the Hebrew women, and
> see them on the birthstools, if it is a son, then you shall kill him; but if
> it is a daughter, then she shall live."
>
> But the midwives feared God, and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded
> them, but saved the male children alive.

Exodus 1:15-17

### Notes

#### Observations

- they're trained to deliver babies but are asked to kill them??
- they feared God

#### Discussion -- were there more than two?

In many (all?) English translations we use the definite article before "Hebrew
midwives" -- these are *the* Hebrew midwives. This makes it sound like there are
only two. However, in the Hebrew there is no article there ([see the interlinear Bible here](https://www.blueletterbible.org/kjv/exo/1/15/t_conc_51015)):

 - *melek* (the King)
 - *Mitsrayim* (of Egypt)
 - *'amar* (spake)
 - *`Ibriy* (to the Hebrew)
 - *yalad* (midwives)

[Other usages of *`Ibriy*](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lang/lexicon/lexicon.cfm?Strongs=H5680&t=KJV)
("Hebrew") are translated with an indefinite article:

  - he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us [Genesis 39:14, KJV]
  - And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant [Genesis 41:12, KJV]
  - he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren [Exodus 2:1, KJV]
  - etc.

When the Israelites leave Egypt we learn there are 600,000 men (see
[cross Reference -- how many Israelites?](#2021-01-10)). That puts the total
population somewhere around one or two million. How could two midwives
serve several million people? It seems more likely that there were more than two
midwives.

So only two were mentioned here. Were these the only two who feared God, and the
rest of them were killing Hebrew babies? I'm unsure.

