> And Moses built an altar and named it The Lord Is My Banner;
>
> saying, "The Lord has sworn [an oath]; the Lord will have war against [the
> people of] Amalek from generation to generation."

Exodus 17:15-16 (AMP)

### Notes

"The Lord Is My Banner" -- "Banner" is "Nissi" in Hebrew

#### From David Guzik's Commentary

[link to commentary on blb.org](https://www.blueletterbible.org/Comm/guzik_david/StudyGuide2017-Exd/Exd-17.cfm?a=67015)

1. Nissi describes a flag or a banner. The idea is that God is victorious in
   battle and the flag of his victory is lifted high. The same word is used of
   the serpent on the pole in Numbers 21:8, and in other significant passages:
    - Psalm 60:4: You have given a banner to those who fear You, that it may be
      displayed because of the truth.
    - Isaiah 11:10: And in that day there shall be a Root of Jesse, Who shall
      stand as a banner to the people; for the Gentiles shall seek Him, and His
    resting place shall be glorious.
2. In Exodus 17 we see examples of God’s power and man’s effort working
   together. Moses struck the rock; but only God could bring the water. Joshua
   fought, Moses prayed, but only God gave the victory over Amalek. In it all,
   God received the glory. It wasn’t Israel is my banner or Moses is my banner
   or Joshua is my banner; rather it was Yahweh-Nissi: The-Lord-is-My-Banner.
3. We sometimes are even more aware of the power and the help of God when we
   work together with Him than we are when God does the work all by Himself.
   Jehovah-Nissi came after the battle with Amalek, not after the dead Egyptians
   at the Red Sea.

